>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
so we built out a very
basic reducer that doesn't do a whole lot.
So let's take some time and
build this out.
And extend that functionality so
that instead of just returning state,
we can see how it can manipulate
state using a mutable operations
to update the application state and
then communicate that back
to your components, or
services into your application.
So you'll notice here that one
of the parameters is action.
So an action consist of, well,
the interface for it is one property.
And action will always,
always have a type.
And more often than not,
it will also have a payload.
But there are times where you'll have
a certain action that it doesn't need
any additional information, so
for instance like load projects.
Well, it's just a command link,
it's a trigger for an event.
But within the action type here, you have
a switch statement that looks at that and
then it will perform
some type of operation.
Now what I want to advise
everybody from doing, and
this is certainly, I think,
tempting as I see this quite often,
is that,
let's say you have a state of create.
And then within this,
performing,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Some
kind of logic and then nesting it.
And so, I have seen reducers, and
I may be even, when I first started,
I would write reducers like this
where you would have a case and
then I would have this
nested logic in here.
Don't do that.
Trust me, it's gonna be painful.
Is that in your reducer,
what you want to do is
capture the action type,
the case and
then delegate to a stand alone function.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Why would you do this?
Because it is testable.
So when something is nested, nested logic
is, I think, in my mind, one of the three
core, if you have an access of evil for
testing, nested logic is in there.
Maybe two.
Hidden states is the first one.
But nested logic I'd say
is probably the second.
And stick around to the end,
I'll tell you the third one.
All right, so we want to create something.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to return a new state object.
So with every case, you're going
to perform semilunar logic and
then return new state.
So the selectedProjectId,
we're not gonna do anything with that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Selected,
I think VS Code is trolling me again.
But on the other hand, projects,
we do wanna do something with this.
And so you'll notice up here,
I've created this method,
createProject, and so
I'm just gonna hook this up real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll
go state.projects, so
it's going to take
essentially all the projects.
And then we're also going to pass in
the project we want to create, all right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so let me,
just because this is kind of a cut, copy,
and paste operation,
I'll do update and delete as well.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Update and delete.
updateProject and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: deleteProject, okay.
So for creating, updating and
deleting,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're
taking in to account those
three possible action types.
Now, let's go up here and
look at these methods real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Every operation
that you do in your reducer needs to
be immutable.
Now, at first, that was a little like,
that sounds hard.
You're using a four syllable word.
How do I do that?
And so one, so
I'm just gonna walk through this is
a mutable operation primer if you will.
It's very, very common, or
at least I have done this many,
many times of going something
like projects.push,
push or put a project into an array.
So I wanna add something to an array.push.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Incredibly common.
The problem is you're mutating that array.
So if you wanted to get that back out,
how would you do that?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Instead what
you could do is something like
projects = projects.concat.
And if you go look in the MDN, so the
Mozilla Developer Network, so they have
a pretty good set of documentation for
a lot of these JavaScript things.
Is it say concat returns a new, so
anytime you're looking at documentation,
it returns a new,
it's a pretty good indication that this is
an immutable operation
you're working with.
So what we're doing is we're saying
take this array and this value and
basically put them together and
return a new array.
What you can also do is a shorthand
version of this saying here's a new array.
I want to spread
the existing projects array
into that and
then I want to add in project.
And so if you look here,
this is exactly what is happening.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So when you need to
update something in a collection, and
typically I'd run through and
I would usually slice it out or
basically chop it out and
put the new thing in.
Or usually I would go through the array
and I'd find the thing I wanted to update
and then just start fiddling with it,
which is even worse.
Well, using projects.map
again returns a new array
after performing this
function on every element
in that array,
is I'm loofing over projects.
And I'm looking for
the project that matches my criteria and
then using object.assign,
which creates a new object,
I'm saying go find
the object I want to update.
Create a brand new object and
basically clone this on to it and
then put that in the array instead.
So we're now combining two immutable
operations to update a collection.
Finally, delete project, if you want to
delete something out of an array this is
even easier, just projects.filter.
So again, returns a new array minus
everything that fails this condition here.
So depending on what I may be doing is,
it would be unreasonable for
me to have to do some kind
of immutable operation or
collection manipulation here.
Once we introduced entity,
this is actually gonna come a lot simpler
where they are doing that under the hood.
But for now, I've created these so
that you could look and
see here is kind of the three
most common immutable operations.
And so what we're simply doing
now is saying, I wanna create
a project which returns a new projects
array, that project at the end.
This one is a new projects array that has
a new project where the one is that we
wanted to update.
And this one has a new array minus
the one that we wanted to leave.
So immutable primer,
that was a bonus subject.
And then from here let's do one more.
And we're going to do case,
and this will be select.
And we're going to return,
again, a new object.
But in this case, we do want to
update the selectedProjectId,
so that's going to be action.payload.
And projects are going to
stay exactly the same.
>> Speaker 2: So what you just showed,
that kind of sounds like peer pipes and
Angular.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: We have to create
a new array.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep,
and so the comment was,
is that what I describing is something
you would use in like a peer pipe.
So we're talking about this in
the context of ngrx and Redux but,
I use these operations all the time in
conservable pipes, or observable streams.
So if I have an observable operation
where I'm stacking things,
I use them all the time, filter, map.
And so generally, it's kind of to
the point now if I'm mutating state,
there are times where I will do
it at a component level cuz it's
like at that point it's
presentation state.
But for
application state if I start to be like,
this is a mutable operation, stop.
And what's interesting is that there's
a package that is store freeze,
whatever, you can actually
freeze your application store.
And so it's not recommended
you do this in production.
But you can freeze it while you're
developing, so if you ever,
am I mutating something, yes or no?
And I think possibly,
maybe Jafar Hussein did that, or
I know he was talking about he
recreated a version of that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: This may be a little bit
of a tangent, but one thing that using
type script sort of brings out
here in these producers is that
the payload is something you
don't really know anything about.
So in the select case it's just an integer
or a string, actually, I guess for the ID.
And then in the create case,
the payload is actually a project object.
Is there any-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You're getting ahead
of me there a little bit.
>> Speaker 2: Am I?
Okay, good, I'm glad.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
let me just do it like an asterisk here.
So we're doing this incrementally and
we're making some concessions.
And so, we'll be starting very slow.
For instance, this,
actually using actions,
types, it just strings, not good.
And so this is a very loosely typed,
kind of a loosey goosey,
like we're gonna build into this so.
I think even, yeah, the next thing I get
into is like, okay, we're dispatching
actions is generic objects and
don't do that, we have typed scripts.
So you're absolutely right.
So we are going to start out, and you're
going to see some things that is like this
is not how we would do it in production,
but for
the sake of a narrative that
we're introducing these in step.